---
layout: default
title: 'home'
---

# welcome

## about me

I am Charles Cole (they/them), currently a software engineer and photographer
living in Texas, where I've spent most of my life. I studied Classical Greek at
Southwestern University due to a longstanding love of history and linguistics.
However, I found my interests wandering toward the end of undergrad. I studied
sustainable agriculture and permaculture for a time. Eventually I found my way
to Austin Coding Academy, where I studied web design & development.

## work history

As a software engineer, I've primarily done front-end work in JavaScript and
TypeScript. I enjoy creating something visual and interactive. After completing
Austin Coding Academy's full-stack web development course, I was hired to make
them a new marketing site. I then worked at data.world as a contract software
engineer working on their UI. after the end of this contract, I began work at
eHealthInsurance. In this role I've had opportunities to work on a NodeJS server
as well as UI projects in a variety of frameworks and languages.

## photography

One of my greatest joys is to create a new perspective and see the world in an
atypical way. Cameras and other optical lenses are excellent tools for doing so.
In my spare time, or whenever a good opportunity arises, I can often be found
practicing so-called "macro" photography (more accurately microphotography), as
well as microscopy/photomicrography. Arthropods are a particular interest due to
their alien body structures and delicate features, and I spend many hours
"spidering" (tracking down and identifying spiders).

<a href="/photography">See my blog</a>

## other interests

### reading

I am a heavy reader, typically of fantasy and science-fiction. I find some of my
most profound understandings have come from reading fiction - but mostly it is
just thrilling and spurs creativity.

### games

I am also an avid and critical player of all manner of games (board, video,
word, etc.), which is what originally led me to programming. A game is just an
algorithm, after all. With my close friends, I have spent hundreds of hours
discussing the qualities of various game we have played, exploring alternate
mechanics or rule alterations, and designing our own games.

### world building

At the intersection of gaming and writing is world building for games. Of
course, world building doesn't require a game, but most often I am intending to
create a setting for a tabletop role-playing game. World building allows me to
exercise a broad array of skills and interests, including linguistics, history &
sociology, biology, geography, economics, materials science, and more.

### science & history

I maintain strong interest in history and science despite not pursuing formal
studies in them (yet). I consume many books, articles, videos, and
documentaries - particularly on ancient history, physics, paleontology, and
urban design. I enjoy keeping up with a wide range of subjects.

I also make use of online academic resources about spiders, insect, and
microorganisms due to my interest in cataloguing these creatures. Not only do I
identify and photograph them, I maintain a growing display of collected insect
(but I have a no-kill policy).

### gardening

Plants are fascinating in their own right, and I always keep some in and around
my home. I like to see how they grow and respond to their environmental
conditions. But even better, of course, is that they provide habitat for the
arthropods I love so much. With plants, I can bring favorites such as assassin
bugs and orchard orb weavers to my door. Having lived in a variety of homes, I
find this most effective in an apartment, however. The limitation of not having
a yard or nearby wild space makes my well kept plants a more attractive option
for local bugs. Living with a yard is thus doubly frustrating to me - not only
is it a wasteful prank upon the resident, it provides abundant hiding places for
my bugs when I let it become overgrown.

### introspection

Most days I journal, and find this reflective process allows me powerful insight
into my emotions and thought processes. I also I find it important to note this
as it does take significant time out of my week to either write or talk through
my inner self, but I enjoy it immensely and the work certainly pays off.

### programming

I also enjoy programming. I don't do much outside of work anymore, though, as I
find my other interests and social relationships wither when I do. Occasionally
I recreate this site or start a project to play around with a new JavaScript
frameworks, library, or tool.
